Overview Slide
Articulate transitions / leave space between slides
Don’t say what something isn’t and not explain what it is
Detail

Intro to Go and Concurrency in Go (based on “Concurrency in Go” book by Katherine Cox-Buday)
Content: (total of 45 minutes, including discussion time at the end and questions in the middle, can go up to 1 hour)
Overview slide, literally just listing what we will cover (1-2 minutes)
Intro to basic Golang (5-8 minutes)
Concurrency vs Parallelism (1-2 minutes)
Traditional concurrency patterns in C/Ruby (3-4 minutes. could cut this, but purpose is for juxtaposition between this and the CSP-style of concurrent programming that this book promotes)
Communicating Sequential Processes (CSP) (5-7 minutes)
Goroutines (3-5 minutes)
sync package (5-10 minutes)
Channels (3-8 minutes)
Channel patterns (5-10 minutes)
Context package (3-5 minutes)
synctest in Go 1.25 (3-5 minutes)
Ok, so what? We are Ruby developers: (3-5 minutes)
Discussion / questions (5 minutes)














Intro to Golang
Compiled, statically typed.
* Don’t show code, just show compiling in shell *
go build -o main main.go
Syntax:
var x int = 3
functions
public/private
Structs
types
Interfaces
Receiver functions
Value vs pointer
Anonymous functions and first class functions
Modules and packages
Define both, move on.
Go is sort-of low-level
Faster than most languages, slower than C and Rust.
Memory modification package is called “unsafe”
Intro to goroutine
Define thread/native threads
Define a coroutine/fiber/green thread
Define a goroutine
Show that millions of goroutines are a few kb of memory, user-space context switching.


Concurrency vs Parallelism
Threads with mutex on shared data/critical sections.
Traditional concurrency patterns in C
Communicating Sequential Processes
Goroutines
Goroutines racing in a for loop, all printing the final i value
sync package
WaitGroup
Mutex and RWMutex
Cond
Once
Pool
Channels
Buffered, unbuffered
Reading, writing, closing
select
Fairly and randomly reads from each branch in select
time.After channel
Select Statement surprise with two goroutines and one, non-looping select
‘done’ pattern
Channel patterns
Or-channel
Fan-out, fan-in
Bridge-channel
Context package
Life of a request
context.background()
Passthrough
context.WithCancel()/WithTimeout()/WithDeadline()
context.Value()
synctest in Go 1.25
Ok, so what? We are Ruby developers
???

Goroutine:
Goroutines are unique to Go (though some other languages have a concurrency primitive that is similar). They’re not OS threads, and they’re not exactly green threads—threads that are managed by a language’s runtime—they’re a higher level of abstraction known as coroutines. Coroutines are simply concurrent subroutines (functions, closures, or methods in Go) that are nonpreemptive—that is, they cannot be interrupted. Instead, coroutines have multiple points throughout which allow for suspension or reentry.
Book page 38

